one of the most inspirational lives for me is that of alexander the great. i had heard of him in my schooldays i we had studied about the greek civilization. i just knew he had come till india to invade it. but had to turn back disappointed, and also that he had died young possibly by an assassination. other than that i knew nothing of him. he was the first who came to my mind if i had to think of people who were being called as 'the great'. but i hadn&rsquo;t learnt of his story nor knew anything about his impact on the world we live today. i had always wondered why they call him 'the great'. in my childhood, my iconic hero was genghis khan. he was the one i looked upon and studied about him by myself by reading books and watching documentaries about the great mongol warlord. but somehow i hadn&rsquo;t done the same thing for alexander. the years had rolled on and on. sometime in march last year, i was bored and was just browsing through youtube. suddenly i came upon a documentary of alexander. it was "in the footsteps of alexander the great" by the british historian michael wood. i had seen wood&rsquo;s previous documentaries on the temples of india, particularly on the tanjavur&rsquo;s brihadeeshwarar temple that emperor raja raja cholan the great had built. i had loved it, particularly the way wood presented it. so, i decided to watch this documentary on alexander. it was just wonderful. it was presented in four parts. wood traveled as closely as possible on the route alexander had taken in his conquest of asia.  the journey started from macedonia in west, to the parts of modern day pakistan in the east. i watched the complete series without break. the documentary was fantastic. i was once again after a long time been interested in alexander, but this time more eager than ever. alexander had become one of my icons now. his story just mesmerized me. that too the way in which wood told the story was excellent. i watched it again and again for the next two days. i also searched for other documentaries on him and viewed them. for a month or two, alexander was one of the constant things that was in my mind. i was very much interested and eager to learn more about him. his story is written by many authors from ancient times to the modern era. of those the important ones are callisthenes, plutarch, diodorus, arrian and quintus curtius rufus. i have read the book &rsquo;history of alexander the great&rsquo; written by curtius rufus. it was a wonderful read. it gave me insights into so many things that the documentaries and the articles in the web had missed out. i will be telling about his story briefly in my future posts. i&rsquo;ll tell as much i have come to know about him.